Clarify handling of projected SA token permissions (#35053)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes.md

volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
{{< /note >}}

### serviceAccountToken and securityContext

> The [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#proposal) for file permission handling in projected service account volume enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner permissions set.

Reviewer: We try _not_ to link to enhancements in docs. In my mind it's the difference between giving people a set of changes and giving people the result of applying those changes. Readers are interested mostly in how Kubernetes works now and less in the journey to get here.

Author: Agree 100%. Just for some context here, I'm not the author of this document. I'm resolving a bug report for ephemeral containers where everything was working as designed but not as expected by the user.

I learned enough about projected service account tokens to update the part of this document related to the bug, but I don't feel comfortable rewriting other parts of the doc.

#### Linux

> Kubernetes will improve security for serviceAccountToken files when all containers
> have the same `runAsUser` set in
> [`PodSecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context)
> or container
> [`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context-1)
> by setting the file owner to the `runAsUser` and the file mode to `0600`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, Kubernetes applies a security optimization for the contents of`serviceAccountToken`
volumes.
When all containers in a pod have the same `runAsUser` set in their
[`PodSecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context)
or container
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context-1),
then the kubelet  ensures that the contents of the `serviceAccountToken` volume are owned by that user,
and that every file has its permission mode set to `0600`.
```

(what about the gid of that file? is is set to 0)?

Author: 👍 Much better, thanks. I was struggling to communicate this clearly.

Author: Oh, and I'd have to double check but I think the gid will be set to `fsGroup` if it's defined, root otherwise.

> Note that {{< glossary_tooltip text="ephemeral containers" term_id="ephemeral-container" >}}
> aren't present when the pod is created. Adding an ephemeral container to a pod
> will not change the permissions that were set when the pod was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
If you add any {{< glossary_tooltip text="ephemeral containers" term_id="ephemeral-container" >}} to
a Pod, those won't have been present when the pod started running on that node.
Adding an ephemeral container to a pod does **not** change any volume permissions
that were set when the pod was created.
{{< /note >}}
```

volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
{{< /note >}}

## SecurityContext interactions
### serviceAccountToken and securityContext

The [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#proposal) for file permission handling in projected service account volume enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner permissions set.

### Linux
#### Linux

In Linux pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUser` set in the Pod
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context),
the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user

> ownership.

Reviewer 2: I can't tell if this is an independent statement that still applies to other types of projected volumes like configmaps/secrets/downwardAPI

Author: I'm sure I knew at some point, but I've lost all context by now. I've reverted my change here and hope we can proceed with this PR as a simple addition of  detail.

> In some cases, Kubernetes applies a security optimization for the contents of`serviceAccountToken`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In some cases, Kubernetes applies a security optimization for the contents of `serviceAccountToken`
```

Author: 👍 Thanks!

> volumes.

Reviewer 2: I'll defer to docs reviewers on the phrasing, but I think it's slightly clearer to drop this sentence and just lead with "When all containers in a pod have the same `runAsUser`..."

Otherwise, I'd get distracted by the "in some cases" and start wondering what those cases were and whether the one listed below is exhaustive

then the kubelet  ensures that the contents of the `serviceAccountToken` volume are owned by that user,
and that every file has its permission mode set to `0600`.

{{< note >}}
If you add any {{< glossary_tooltip text="ephemeral containers" term_id="ephemeral-container" >}} to
a Pod, those won't have been present when the pod started running on that node.
Adding an ephemeral container to a pod does **not** change any volume permissions

> that were set when the pod was created.

Reviewer 2: The technical content lgtm, this might be able to be rephrased more clearly. I'd suggest something like the following, but will defer to docs reviewers:

```
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Ephemeral containers" term_id="ephemeral-container" >}}
added to a Pod after it is created do *not* change volume permissions that were set when the pod was created.
If a Pod's `serviceAccountToken` volume permissions were set to `0600` because all other containers in the
Pod have the same `runAsUser`, ephemeral containers must use the same `runAsUser` to be able to read the token.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Ephemeral containers" term_id="ephemeral-container" >}}
added to a Pod after it is created do *not* change volume permissions that were
set when the pod was created.

If a Pod's `serviceAccountToken` volume permissions were set to `0600` because
all other containers in the Pod have the same `runAsUser`, ephemeral
containers must use the same `runAsUser` to be able to read the token.
```
(credit to @liggitt there)

the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user
ownership.

When all containers in a pod have the same `runAsUser` set in their
[`PodSecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context)
or container
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context-1),
then the kubelet  ensures that the contents of the `serviceAccountToken` volume are owned by that user,

> and that every file has its permission mode set to `0600`.

Author: Fixed, thanks.
